有機化学
ゆうきかがく
yukikagaku
Organic chemistry
A branch of chemistry that studies the structure, properties and reactions of organic compounds, which contain carbon covalent bonds. Study of structure determines their structural formula. Study of properties includes physical and chemical properties, and evaluation of chemical reactivity to understand their behavior. The study of organic reactions includes the chemical synthesis laboratory and via theoretical (in silico) study.
,
物理化学
ぶつりかがく
butsurikagaku
Physical chemistry
A term used to refer to the field of chemistry in which the structure, properties, and reactions of matter are studied using physical methods.
,
無機化学
むきかがく
mukikagaku
Inorganic chemistry
It is a branch of chemistry that studies chemistry that studies elements, single and inorganic compounds.
,
化学工学
かがくこうがく
kagakukogaku
Chemical engineering
Chemical engineering is the engineering field which deals with the study of operation and design of chemical plants as well as methods of improving production. Chemical engineers develop economical commercial processes to convert raw material into useful products.
,
生物学
せいぶつがく
seibutsugaku
Biology
It is a branch of natural science that studies life phenomena. The size of the subject matter covered ranges from ""the behavior of a single molecule in a cell"" in single molecule biology to ""phenomena at the level of the biosphere"" in ecology.
,
攪拌
かくはん
kakuhan
Agitation
To put something into motion by shaking or stirring.
,
基底状態
きていじょうたい
kiteijotai
Ground state
The ground state of a quantum-mechanical system is its stationary state of lowest energy.
,
励起状態
れいきじょうたい
reikijotai
Excited state
In quantum mechanics, an excited state of a system(such as an atom, molecule or nucleus) is any quantum state of the system that has a higher energy than the ground state (that is, more energy than the absolute minimum).
,
量子力学
りょうしりきがく
ryoshirikigaku
Quantum mechanics
It is a fundamental theory in physics that provides a description of the physical properties of nature at the scale of atoms and subatomic particles.
,
生化学
せいかがく
seikagaku
Biochemistry
It is the study of chemical processes within and relating to living organisms. A sub-discipline of both chemistry and biology, biochemistry may be divided into three fields: structural biology, enzymology and metabolism.
,
電子配置
でんしはいち
denshihaichi
Electron configuration
In atomic physics and quantum chemistry, the electron configuration is the distribution of electrons of an atom or molecule (or other physical structure) in atomic or molecular orbitals.
,
原子軌道
げんしきどう
genshikido
Atomic orbital
In atomic theory and quantum mechanics, a function describing the location and wave-like behavior of an electron in an atom.
,
分子軌道
ぶんしきどう
bunshikido
Molecular orbital
In chemistry, a molecular orbital is a mathematical function describing the location and wave-like behavior of an electron in a molecule.
,
孤立電子対
こりつでんしつい
koritsudenshitsui
Lone pair
In chemistry, a lone pair refers to a pair of valence electrons that are not shared with another atom in a covalent bond and is sometimes called an unshared pair or non-bonding pair.
,
混成軌道
こんせいきどう
konseikido
Hybrid orbital
In chemistry, it is the concept of mixing atomic orbitals to form new hybrid orbitals suitable for the pairing of electrons to form chemical bonds in valence bond theory.
,
共鳴構造
きょうめいこうぞう
kyomeikozo
Resonance structure
In chemistry, resonance, also called mesomerism, is a way of describing bonding in certain molecules or polyatomic ions by the combination of several contributing structures into a resonance hybrid in valence bond theory.
,
反結合性軌道
はんけつごうせいきどう
hanketsugoseikido
Antibonding orbital
In chemical bonding theory, an antibonding orbital is a type of molecular orbital that weakens the chemical bond between two atoms and helps to raise the energy of the molecule relative to the separated atoms.
,
結晶構造
けっしょうこうぞう
ketsushokozo
Crystal structure
In crystallography, it is a description of the ordered arrangement of atoms, ions or molecules in a crystalline material.
,
イオン結晶
いおんけっしょう
ionketsusho
Ionic crystal
In chemistry, it is a crystalline form of an ionic compound. They are solids consisting of ions bound together by their electrostatic attraction into a regular lattice.
,
酸解離定数
さんかいりていすう
sankairiteisu
Acid dissociation constant
In chemistry, an acid dissociation constant (also known as acidity constant, or acid-ionization constant; denoted Κ_a) is a quantitative measure of the strength of an acid in solution.
,
酸化数
さんかすう
sankasu
Oxidation number
In chemistry, the oxidation state, or oxidation number, is the hypothetical charge of an atom if all of its bonds to different atoms were fully ionic.
,
遷移元素
せんいきんぞく
senikinzoku
Transition element
In chemistry, a transition metal (or transition element) is a chemical element that has a partly filled d subshell in elemental form or as an ion in compounds, which allows the d orbitals to participate in chemical bonding.
,
水素結合
すいそけつごう
suisoketsugo
Hydrogen bond
In chemistry, a hydrogen bond (or H-bond) is a primarily electrostatic force of attraction between a hydrogen (H) atom which is covalently bound to a more electronegative ""donor"" atom or group (Dn), and another electronegative atom bearing a lone pair of electrons—the hydrogen bond acceptor (Ac).
,
結晶場理論
けっしょうばりろん
ketsushobariron
Crystal field theory
Crystal field theory (CFT) describes the breaking of degeneracies of electron orbital states, usually d or f orbitals, due to a static electric field produced by a surrounding charge distribution (anion neighbors).
,
疎水性
そすいせい
sosuisei
Hydrophobic
In chemistry, hydrophobicity is the physical property of a molecule that is seemingly repelled from a mass of water (known as a hydrophobe).
,
親水性
しんすいせい
shinsuisei
Hydrophilic
A hydrophile is a molecule or other molecular entity that is attracted to water molecules and tends to be dissolved by water.
,
ペプチド結合
ぺぷちどけつごう
pepuchidoketsugo
Peptide bond
In organic chemistry, a peptide bond is an amide type of covalent chemical bond linking two consecutive alpha-amino acids from carbon number one of one alpha-amino acid and nitrogen number two of another, along a peptide or protein chain.
,
酵素
こうそ
koso
Enzyme
Enzyme is proteins that act as biological catalysts by accelerating chemical reactions.
,
活性部位
かっせいぶい
katsuseibui
Active site
In biology and biochemistry, the active site is the region of an enzyme where substrate molecules bind and undergo a chemical reaction.
,
基質
きしつ
kishitsu
Substrate
In biology, a substrate is the surface on which an organism (such as a plant, fungus, or animal) lives.
,
多原子分子
たげんしぶんし
tagenshibunshi
Polyatomic molecule
It is a molecule consisting of three or more atoms bonded together.
,
逐次重合
ちくじじゅうごう
hikujijugo
Sequential polymerization
A polymerization reaction in which the functional groups of a monomer or polymer react to gradually increase in molecular weight.
,
開環重合
かいかんじゅうごう
kaikanjugo
Ring-opening polymerization
This is a reaction in which the ring structure of a cyclic compound is unraveled and the ends of the unraveled compound are joined together to form a polymer.
,
機能性高分子
きのうせいこうぶんし
kinoseikobunshi
Functional Polymers
A high-molecular compound that exhibits a special function due to its characteristic molecular structure or reactive groups.
,
軌道角運動量
きどうかくうんどうりょう
kidokakundoryo
Orbital angular momentum
It is the angular momentum expressed as the product of position and its conjugate momentum.
,
