三辺測量
さんぺんそくりょう
sampensokuryo
Trilateration
Surveying to determine position and height. The distance of each side of a triangle drawn with three measuring points is checked and surveyed. In the past, this method was not used due to its inaccuracy, but in recent years, instruments that can measure distances with high accuracy, such as lightwave rangefinders, have appeared, and this has made it possible.
,
平面測量
へいめんそくりょう
heimensokuryo
Plane surveying
Survey of a small area. It does not take into account that the earth is a sphere (curved plane), but assumes that the land is flat.
,
大地測量
だいちそくりょう
daichisokuryo
Geodetic surveying
A surface that treats the ground surface as a surface considering curvature.
,
距離測量
きょりそくりょう
kyorisokuryo
Distance survey
It is a survey that measures the distance between two points on the ground and, together with angular surveying, is a fundamental element of various ground survey methods.
,
角測量
かくそくりょう
kakusokuryo
Measurement of angle
It is a survey that measures the angle between the directions from one measuring point on the ground to a target in two directions. Triangulation and polygonal surveying are also types of angular surveying.
,
水準測量
すいじゅんそくりょう
suijunsokuryo
Leveling
A survey to determine the height of each point on the ground. The direct leveling method uses a level and staff to obtain the specific height between two points based on the difference between the readings of the vertical and horizontal readings of the vertical and horizontal staffs at the two points. There are two types of direct level surveying and triangulation.
,
細部測量
さいぶそくりょう
saibusokuryo
Detail surveying
Surveying is performed to map the entire topography and landforms in detail. There are several methods, such as the intersection method, the right-of-way method, the radial method, and the bearing method. Which of these methods is used depends on the topographic and geographic conditions.
,
基本測量
きほんそくりょう
kihonsokuryo
Basic survey
It is one of the terms in the Survey Act, and refers to ""a survey that forms the basis of all surveys and is conducted by the Geographical Survey Institute"" (Article 4 of the Survey Act).
,
公共測量
こうきょうそくりょう
kokyosokuryo
Public survey
One of the terms in the Survey Act, which means the following surveys other than basic surveying (Article 5 of the Survey Act).
,
基準点測量
きじゅんてんそくりょう
kijuntensokuryo
Point surveying
A new reference point is established based on an existing reference point (triangulation point, electronic reference point, etc.), and the location (coordinates and height) of the new point is determined.
,
ワーカビリティ
わーかびりてぃ
wakabiritei
Workability
Workability is the combined property of consistency and resistance to material separation, so any factor that affects them will also affect workability. Increasing the unit water content or the maximum size of coarse aggregate increases flowability but also increases the tendency for material separation.
,
コンシステンシー
こんしすてんしー
konshisutenshi
Consistency
In English, it means stiffness, concentration, viscosity, etc. It expresses the degree of resistance to deformation or flow of cement, mortar, concrete, etc.... Consistency can be determined by measuring the amount of deformation that occurs when an external force is applied, or the amount of work required to produce a given deformation.
,
空気量
くうきりょう
kukiryo
Air volume
The amount of air varies depending on pressure, temperature, and humidity. According to the Boyle-Charles law, if the pressure doubles, the air volume is reduced by half. Air volume also differs between Europe with its low humidity and Southeast Asia with its high temperature and humidity, and between coastal areas and mountain tops.
,
スランプロス
すらんぷろす
surampurosu
Slump loss
The degree to which concrete hardens over time, expressed as a difference in slump.
,
高強度コンクリート
こうきょうどこんくりーと
kokyodokonkurito
High-strength concrete
It is manufactured using special cement, aggregates, and admixtures. To increase the design basis strength, the amount of cement is increased, and water is reduced.
,
水密コンクリート
すいみつこんくりーと
suimitsukonkurito
Watertight concrete
Concrete used for watertight structures. The upper limit of the water cement ratio is 50% or less in JASS5 and 55% or less in the Standard Specifications for Concrete. It is important to use coarse aggregate with a high-performance ratio, which increases the unit coarse aggregate volume. This results in a lower fine aggregate content, and both the unit cement and unit water content decrease under the condition that the slump is constant. As a result, dense concrete can be produced.
,
高流動コンクリート
こうりゅうどうこんくりーと
koryudokonkurito
High-flow concrete
This concrete uses less water than normal concrete and has high fluidity. Because the concrete is spread to all corners, it is sometimes referred to as compacted concrete or self-compacting concrete.
,
寒中コンクリート
かんちゅうこんくりーと
kanchukonkurito
Concrete formed in winter
This is one of the methods used when placing concrete in cold weather. It is not a type of concrete, but rather a method of concrete handling. The term ""cold-weather"" concrete is used. If concrete freezes before its strength develops, it will not regain its strength even if it is properly cured afterwards. Therefore, concrete placed at a time when there is a ""risk of freezing before hardening"" must be treated as ""cold-weather concrete.
,
暑中コンクリート
しょちゅうこんくりーと
shochukonkurito
Hot concrete
Concrete constructed in hot weather is generally applied when the average temperature exceeds 25°C (77°F) because of the risk of slump reduction and rapid evaporation of moisture. Aggregate/water should be used at the lowest possible temperature, the temperature at unloading of ready-mixed concrete should be 35℃ or lower, and after setting, the concrete should be wet-cured immediately to prevent rapid evaporation of moisture.
,
流動化コンクリート
りゅうどうかこんくりーと
ryudokakonkurito
Fluidized concrete
Fluidized concrete is more fluid than regular concrete, but it is not made more fluid by increasing the water content in the regular concrete. Fluidizing agents are added later to the already mixed base concrete and scattered between the cement particles to increase fluidity.
,
マスコンクリート
ますこんくりーと
masukonkurito
Mass concrete
Concrete of large volume and weight is called mass concrete and is utilized in large-scale structures. Because of its large size, mass concrete is vulnerable to a particular type of cracking called temperature cracking, and it is important to prevent this cracking during construction. The definition of mass concrete varies between the Standard Specifications for Concrete and JASS5.
,
住宅基礎用コンクリート
じゅうたくきそようこんくりーと
jutakukisoyokonkurito
Concrete for Housing Foundations
Concrete used for foundations of wooden buildings, small gates, fences, minor structures not intended for residential use, and simple machine platforms.
,
無筋コンクリート
むきんこんくりーと
mukinkonkurito
Unreinforced concrete
Concrete without reinforcing steel. It is used for concrete that does not require much strength, such as hold-down concrete and moisture-proof concrete.
,
プレストレストコンクリート
ぷれすとれすとこんくりーと
puresutoresutokonkurito
Prestressed concrete
Reinforced by inserting reinforcing steel bars into the concrete to resist tensile forces. The concrete is reinforced by steel bars to resist tensile forces. However, some cracking will occur in the concrete. If an excessive load is applied, cracks will remain even after the load is removed.
,
プレキャストコンクリート
ぷれきゃすとこんくりーと
purekyasutokonkurito
Precast concrete
Concrete members that make up standardized walls are mass-produced at a factory in advance and assembled on site. These standardized walls are also called PC panels.
,
AE減水剤
えーいーげんすいざい
eigensuizai
AE water reducer
It is an admixture with both cement dispersing and aerodynamic properties. Workability The use of water reducers improves the workability of concrete and reduces material separation.
,
エントラップトエア
えんとらっぷとえあ
entoratsuputoea
Entrap to Air
Bubbles are air bubbles that naturally mix into concrete during mixing without the use of an admixture and are present at 0.5 to 3% in normal concrete.
,
現場練りコンクリート
げんばねりこんくりーと
gembanerikonkurito
Ready-mixed concrete
To confirm the performance of concrete (characteristics such as strength and viscosity), concrete is mixed using actual formulations and subjected to various tests for different purposes.
,
高炉スラグ微粉末
こうろすらぐびふんまつ
korosuragubifummatsu
Blast furnace slag fine powder
It is one of the hydraulic concrete admixtures, and in principle, it is produced by pulverizing blast furnace slag, which is a byproduct of blast furnaces.
,
収縮低減剤
しゅうしゅくていげんざい
shushukuteigenzai
Shrinkage reducer
By reducing the surface tension acting on the water inside the concrete, the stress due to drying shrinkage is reduced and cracking is suppressed.
,
水中不分離性混和剤
すいちゅうふぶんりせいこんわざい
suichufubunriseikonwazai
Non-separable mixing agent in water
This admixture provides concrete with material separation resistance that allows the concrete to maintain its integrity without being washed away when dropped in water.
,
湿潤養生期間
しつじゅんようじょうきかん
shitsujunyojokikan
Wet curing period
It is the process of keeping concrete moist and protecting it from harmful influences. Wet condition is simply defined as ""moistened with water.
,
石灰石微粉末
せっかいせきびふんまつ
setsukaisekibifummatsu
Limestone micro powder
It is one of the admixtures for concrete and is added to improve the fluidity of concrete and reduce heat of hydration.
,
凍結融解抵抗性
とうけつゆうかいていこうせい
toketsuyukaiteikosei
Freeze-thaw resistance
This is a deterioration phenomenon caused by repeated freezing and thawing of water inside hardened concrete. Moisture inside the concrete freezes and expands in volume due to a drop in temperature, and then thaws when the temperature rises during the day.
,
樹脂塗装鋼材
じゅしとそうこうざい
jushitosokozai
Resin coated steel
Resin-coated PC steel is PC steel coated with resin to provide anticorrosion performance and has been widely used in recent years as an anticorrosion method for PC steel of the external cable system.
,
材料分離抵抗性
ざいりょうぶんりていこうせい
zairyobunriteikosei
Material separation resistance
Material separation resistance is related to the viscosity of the mud and fluidized treated soil, and lack of viscosity causes bleeding and sedimentation.
,
ブリージング
ぶりーじんぐ
burijingu
Breathing
This is a phenomenon in which moisture contained in fresh concrete floats up and seeps through to the surface after casting.
,
ポルトランドセメント
ぽるとらんどせめんと
porutorandosemento
Portland cement
A type of cement used as a raw material for mortar and concrete. It is the most common type of cement.
,
不導体被膜
ふどうたいひまく
fudotaihimaku
Non-conductive film
A very thin oxide film formed when the chromium in stainless steel combines with oxygen in the atmosphere.
,
シリカヒューム
しりかひゅーむ
shirikahyumu
Silica fume
Amorphous spherical particles of high-purity SiO2 obtained by collecting dust generated during the production of ferrosilicon, metallic silicon, electro-fused zirconia, etc.
,
