電気
でんき
denki
Electricity
Electricity is the set of physical phenomena associated with the presence and motion of matter that has a property of electric charge. Electricity is related to magnetism, both being part of the phenomenon of electromagnetism, as described by Maxwell's equations.
,
電流
でんりゅう
denryu
Electric current
An electric current is a stream of charged particles, such as electrons or ions, moving through an electrical conductor or space. It is measured as the net rate of flow of electric charge through a surface or into a control volume.
,
電圧
でんあつ
denatsu
Voltage
Voltage, electric potential difference, electric pressure or electric tension is the difference in electric potential between two points, which (in a static electric field) is defined as the work needed per unit of charge to move a test charge between the two points.
,
電子
でんし
denshi
Electron
The electron is a subatomic particle whose electric charge is negative one elementary charge.
,
直流
ちょくりゅう
chokuryu
Direct current 
Direct current is a ""direct current"" whose magnitude varies with time but the direction of flow (positive or negative) does not.
,
交流
こうりゅう
koryu
Alternating current
In electrical engineering, alternating current is a current or voltage that periodically changes in magnitude and direction over time.
,
電気抵抗
でんきていこう
denkiteiko
Electric resistance
The electrical resistance of an object is a measure of its opposition to the flow of electric current.
,
リアクタンス
りあくたんす
riakutansu
Reactance
Electrical reactance, the opposition to a change in voltage due to capacitance (capacitive reactance) or in current due to inductance (inductive reactance); the imaginary component of AC impedance.
,
コンデンサ
こんでんさ
kondensa
Capacitor
A capacitor is a device that stores electrical energy in an electric field. It is a passive electronic component with two terminals.
,
発光ダイオード(LED)
はっこうだいおーど
hatsukodaiodo
Light emitting diode
A light-emitting diode (LED) is a semiconductor light source that emits light when current flows through it. Electrons in the semiconductor recombine with electron holes, releasing energy in the form of photons.
,
