計算機
けいさんき
keisanki
Calculator
Mechanical device used to perform the basic operations of arithmetic automatically, or a simulation such as an analog computer or a slide rule.
,
機械学習
きかいがくしゅう
kikaigakushu
Machine learning
The study of computer algorithms that can improve automatically through experience and by the use of data.
,
仮想化
かそうか
kasoka
Virtualization
In computing, virtualization or virtualisation is the act of creating a virtual version of something at the same abstraction level, including virtual computer hardware platforms, storage devices, and computer network resources.
,
パケット通信
ぱけっとつうしん
paketsutotsushin
Packet Communication
In packet communication, data is exchanged in small pieces like parcels.
,
共通鍵暗号方式
きょうつうかぎあんごうほうしき
kyotsukagiangohoshiki
Symmetric key cryptosystem
It is a cryptographic scheme that uses the same key for encryption and decryption.
,
公開鍵暗号方式
こうかいかぎあんごうほうしき
kokaikagiangohoshiki
Public key cryptosystem
It is a cryptographic scheme that uses separate keys for encryption and decryption and allows the encryption key to be disclosed.
,
ハイブリッド暗号方式
はいぶりっどあんごうほうしき
haiburitsudoangohoshiki
Hybrid cryptosystem
It is a cryptographic scheme that combines public-key cryptography and symmetric-key cryptography.
,
ファイアウォール
ふぁいあうぉーる
fuaiauoru
Firewall
In computing, a firewall is a network security system that monitors and controls incoming and outgoing network traffic based on predetermined security rules. A firewall typically establishes a barrier between a trusted network and an untrusted network, such as the Internet.
,
ブロードバンドルータ
ぶろーどばんどるーた
burodobandoruta
Broadband router
A residential gateway is a small consumer-grade gateway which bridges network access between connected local area network hosts to a wide area network via a modem, or directly connects to a WAN, while routing.
,
デフォルトルート
でふぉるとるーと
defuorutoruto
Default route
In computer networking, the default route is a configuration of the Internet Protocol that establishes a forwarding rule for packets when no specific address of a next-hop host is available from the routing table or other routing mechanisms.
,
イーサネット
いーさねっと
isanetsuto
Ethernet
Ethernet is a family of wired computer networking technologies commonly used in local area networks, metropolitan area networks and wide area networks.
,
ルーティング
るーてぃんぐ
ruteingu
Routing
Routing is the process of selecting a path for traffic in a network or between or across multiple networks.
,
マルウェア
まるうぇあ
maruea
Malware
Malware is any software intentionally designed to cause disruption to a computer, server, client, or computer network, leak private information, gain unauthorized access to information or systems, deprive access to information, or which unknowingly interferes with the user's computer security and privacy.
,
デフォルトゲートウェイ
でふぉるとげーとうぇい
defuorutogetoei
Default gateway
A default gateway is the node in a computer network using the Internet protocol suite that serves as the forwarding host to other networks when no other route specification matches the destination IP address of a packet.
,
アドレスプール
あどれすぷーる
adoresupuru
Address pool
In the context of the Internet addressing structure, an address pool is a set of Internet Protocol addresses available at any level in the IP address allocation hierarchy.
,
ウィンドウ制御
うぃんどうせいぎょ
uindoseigyo
Window control
This is one of the flow control methods to control the flow of data between two points. It is a method to transfer data in large units by allocating a buffer area called a window in the memory.
,
シーケンス番号
しーけんすばんごう
shikensubango
Sequence number
A serial number assigned to packets sent by TCP. By referring to the sequence number, the receiving side can know the correct order of packets and whether packets are missing in the process of communication.
,
フロー制御
ふろーせいぎょ
furoseigyo
Flow control
In communications, a function that regulates the amount of data transmitted by slowing down or stopping the transmission of data to prevent the receiving side's buffer from overflowing or data from being dropped because other processes are busy.
,
ポート開放
ぽーとかいほう
potokaiho
Port opening
It is the act of partially disabling the filtering function of the Internet so that external access can be accepted.
,
ホストアドレス
ほすとあどれす
hosutoadoresu
Host address
It is part of the address used to identify hosts on a computer network.
,
サブネットアドレス
さぶねっとあどれす
sabunetsutoadoresu
Subnet address
A subnetwork or subnet is a logical subdivision of an IP network. The practice of dividing a network into two or more networks is called subnetting.
,
ラウンドロビン方式
らうんどろびんほうしき
raundorobinhoshiki
Round-robin system
It is one of the scheduling rules for processes in operating systems, etc., and is classified as a kind of simple category.
,
タスクスケジューリング方式
たすくすけじゅーりんぐほうしき
tasukusukejuringuhoshiki
Task Scheduling Method
This method sets priorities for tasks and executes them in order of priority.
,
ネットワークアドレス
ねっとわーくあどれす
netsutowakuadoresu
Network address
An address in a group of IP addresses assigned to a network that points to the network itself.
,
論理回路
ろんりかいろ
ronrikairo
Boolean circuit
In computational complexity theory and circuit complexity, a Boolean circuit is a mathematical model for combinational digital logic circuits. A formal language can be decided by a family of Boolean circuits, one circuit for each possible input length.
,
分解能
ぶんかいのう
bunkaino
Resolution
In AD converters and DA converters, it refers to the ability to indicate how finely the signal to be measured can be detected.
,
浮動小数点数
ふどうしょうすうてんすう
fudoshosutensu
Floating-point number
A method of expressing numerical values in computers in which numerical values are divided into a mantissa part representing the sequence of digits and an exponent part representing the position of the decimal point.
,
組み合わせ回路
くみあわせかいろ
kumiawasekairo
Combinational circuit
A logic circuit in which the output signal is uniquely determined for a given input signal.
,
順序回路
じゅんじょかいろ
junjokairo
Sequential circuit
A logic circuit that has internal storage and synchronization circuits and whose output is not determined solely by the combination of input signals.
,
即値
そくち
sokuchi
Immediate
In assembly language or machine language, a number written directly into the code as a specification of the object to be handled by the instruction.
,
アドレス指定
あどれすしてい
adoresushitei
Addressing
In computing, an address space defines a range of discrete addresses, each of which may correspond to a network host, peripheral device, disk sector, a memory cell or other logical or physical entity.
,
配線論理制御
はいせんろんりせいぎょ
haisenronriseigyo
Wiring Logic Control
A method in which electronic circuits alone control the execution of all instructions performed in the control and arithmetic sections of a computer.
,
マイクロプログラム制御
まいくろぷろぐらむせいぎょ
maikuropuroguramuseigyo
Microprogramme control
A relatively easy way to implement complex instructions using a microprogram in the CPU.
,
割り込み
わりこみ
warikomi
Interrupt
It means to interrupt a process that is currently being executed and force it to execute another process.
,
仮想メモリ
かそうめもり
kasomemori
Virtual memory
A type of memory management virtualization technique in the computer field in which an operating system or other system provides physical memory to application software in such a way that it appears to be a dedicated, contiguous main memory device.
,
キャッシュメモリ
きゃっしゅめもり
kyatsushumemori
Cache memory
It is a high-speed small-capacity memory used by CPUs and other processing devices to hide the latency/low bandwidth of main memory and buses when retrieving/updating data, instructions, and other information, and to bridge the performance gap between processing devices and memory devices.
,
確率的勾配降下法
かくりつてきこうばいこうかほう
kakuritsutekikobaikokaho
Stochastic gradient descent
This is a type of steepest descent method, in which the gradient is obtained with only one random piece of data, and the process of updating the parameters is done for as many data as there are.
,
誤差逆伝播法
ごさぎゃくでんぱんほう
gosagyakudempanho
Backward propagation method
It is an algorithm that can update the weights of a neural network, a mathematical model, regardless of the number of layers.
,
転移学習
てんいがくしゅう
tenigakushu
Transfer learning
This is a method in which only the data from the newly added model is trained, while the data from the existing trained model remains unchanged.
,
勾配法
こうばいほう
kobaiho
Gradient method
A generic term for an algorithm that uses information about the gradient of a function in the search for a solution in an optimization problem.
,
