旋盤
せんばん
semban
Lathe, Turning machine
A turning machine is one of the machine tools that rotates the work piece and cuts it with a fixed tool called a cutting tool.
,
フライス盤
ふらいすばん
furaisuban
Fraise, Milling machine
A milling machine is a machine tool that cuts flat surfaces, grooves, gears, etc. by rotating a cutting tool called a milling cutter attached to a rotating shaft and moving the milling cutter.
,
ボール盤
ぼーるばん
boruban
Drilling machine
A drilling machine is a machine tool for accurately drilling holes in various materials. Place the material to be machined on a table, rotate a cutting tool such as a drill or reamer attached to the spindle, and lower the spindle toward the material to make a hole.
,
溶接
ようせつ
yosetsu
Welding
Welding is a fabrication process that joins materials, usually metals or thermoplastics, by using high heat to melt the parts together and allowing them to cool, causing fusion.
,
鋳造
ちゅうぞう
chuzo
Casting
Casting is a manufacturing process in which a liquid material is usually poured.
,
ノギス
のぎす
nogisu
Vernier caliper
It consists of a main scale and a vernier scale that slides along it, and is a measuring instrument that measures the thickness and diameter of an object. The main scale and vernier scale have claws that can be used to pinch the target from the outside or hit the inside of the target.
,
塑性変形
そせいへんけい
soseihenkei
Plastic deformation
After applying an external force to the object to deform it, the deformation remains even if the external force is removed. It occurs when the magnitude of the external force exceeds the elastic limit.
,
弾性変形
だんせいへんけい
danseihenkei
Elastic deformation
When a deformation that occurs in a solid to which a force is applied returns to its original state after the force is removed, this deformation is called elastic deformation. Deformation of an object that receives a force smaller than its elastic limit.
,
応力
おうりょく
oryoku
Stress
This is the physical quantity used to represent the magnitude and direction of action of the force generated inside an object. It is used to determine the magnitude of the burden on object deformation and destruction.
,
ひずみ
ひずみ
hizumi
Strain
It is a measure of the deformation state of an object in continuum mechanics and shows how much the mass point in the object is displaced per unit length of the reference state of the object.
,
合金
ごうきん
gokin
Alloy
An alloy is a mixture of chemical elements of which at least one is a metal. Unlike chemical compounds with metallic bases, an alloy will retain all the properties of a metal in the resulting material, such as electrical conductivity, ductility, opacity, and luster, but may have properties that differ from those of the pure metals, such as increased strength or hardness.
,
板金
ばんきん
bankin
Sheet matal
Sheet metal is metal formed into thin, flat pieces, usually by an industrial process. Sheet metal is one of the fundamental forms used in metalworking, and it can be cut and bent into a variety of shapes.
,
摩耗
まもう
mamo
Wear
Wear is the damaging, gradual removal or deformation of material at solid surfaces. Causes of wear can be mechanical (e.g., erosion) or chemical (e.g., corrosion). The study of wear and related processes is referred to as tribology.
,
公差
こうさ
kosa
Tolerance
Tolerances set the allowable deviation from assigned dimensions. Not setting a tolerance in a critical area may render the part unusable according to the design intent, as each fabrication method comes with a certain level of inaccuracy.
,
鋼
はがね、こう
hagane、ko
Steel
Steel is an alloy made up of iron with added carbon to improve its strength and fracture resistance compared to other forms of iron. Many other elements may be present or added.
,
曲げ
まげ
mage
Bending
In applied mechanics, bending (also known as flexure) characterizes the behavior of a slender structural element subjected to an external load applied perpendicularly to a longitudinal axis of the element.
,
せん断
せんだん
sendan
Shearing
In continuum mechanics, shearing refers to the occurrence of a shear strain, which is a deformation of a material substance in which parallel internal surfaces slide past one another. It is induced by a shear stress in the material.
,
切削
せっさく
setsusaku
Cutting
Cutting has been at the core of manufacturing throughout history. For metals many methods are used and can be grouped by the physical phenomenon used. It is the process of producing a work piece by removing unwanted material from a block of metal, in the form of chips.
,
研磨
けんま
kemma
Polishing
Polishing is the process of creating a smooth and shiny surface by rubbing it or by applying a chemical treatment, leaving a clean surface with a significant specular reflection (still limited by the index of refraction of the material according to the Fresnel equations).In some materials (such as metals, glasses, black or transparent stones), polishing is also able to reduce diffuse reflection to minimal values.
,
測定
そくてい
sokutei
Measurement
Measurement is the process of comparing unknown magnitude of certain parameter with the known predefined standard of that parameter. For the measurements results to be accurate, two conditions should be met. Scope of Measurement Measurements are one of crucial parts of not only mechanical engineering but all types of engineering fields.
,
表面粗さ
ひょうめんあらさ
hyomenarasa
Surface roughness
The degree of unevenness of the finished surface of a work machined by cutting, polishing, etc.
,
バイト
ばいと
baito
Tool bit
A tool bit is a non-rotary cutting tool used in metal lathes, shapers, and planers. Such cutters are also often referred to by the set-phrase name of single-point cutting tool, as distinguished from other cutting tools such as a saw or water jet cutter.
,
エンドミル
えんどみる
endomiru
End mill
An end mill is a type of milling cutter, a cutting tool used in industrial milling applications.
,
定盤
じょうばん
joban
Surface plate
A smooth table or block-like platform with a horizontal surface that serves as a reference plane.
,
鍛造
たんぞう
tanzo
Forging
Forging is a manufacturing process involving the shaping of metal using localized compressive forces. The blows are delivered with a hammer (often a power hammer) or a die.
,
万力
まんりき
manriki
Vise
A vise or vice (British English) is a mechanical apparatus used to secure an object to allow work to be performed on it. Vises have two parallel jaws, one fixed and the other movable, threaded in and out by a screw and lever.
,
ワーク
わーく
waku
Work
In the field of machining, objects to be machined with various types of machine tools.
,
寸法
すんぽう
sumpo
Dimensions
A numerical value that represents the size of a part's shape, such as its distance or angle from a certain reference.
,
治具
じぐ
jigu
Jig
A jig is a type of custom-made tool used to control the location and/or motion of parts or other tools.
,
引張強さ
ひっぱりつよさ
hitsuparitsuyosa
Tensile strength
The maximum tensile stress that can be applied to a specimen. If the tensile strength is exceeded, the material will fail.
,
